Jobs Monitoring on K8s: SSI is the new recommended injection method (#37443)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/kubernetes.md

[Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring][6] gives visibility into the performance and reliability of Apache Spark applications on Kubernetes.

## Setup

<div class="alert alert-info">Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring requires <a href="https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/releases" target="_blank">Datadog Agent version</a> 7.64.0 or later, and <a href="https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-java/releases" target="_blank">Java tracer</a> version 1.38.0 or later.</div>

Follow these steps to enable Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring for Spark on Kubernetes.

1. [Install the Datadog Agent](#install-the-datadog-agent-on-your-kubernetes-cluster) on your Kubernetes cluster.
2. [Enable Single Step Instrumentation](#enable-single-step-instrumentation).

### Install the Datadog Agent on your Kubernetes cluster

> If you have already [installed the Datadog Agent on your Kubernetes cluster][1], ensure that you have enabled the [Datadog Admission Controller][2]. You can then go to the next step, [Enable Single Step Instrumentation](#enable-single-step-instrumentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have already [installed the Datadog Agent on your Kubernetes cluster][1], make sure you've enabled the [Datadog Admission Controller][2]. You can then go to the next step, [Enable Single Step Instrumentation](#enable-single-step-instrumentation).
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Enable Single Step Instrumentation

> Single Step Instrumentation (SSI) injects the Java tracer into your Spark driver and executor pods at startup. It works regardless of whether your Spark driver runs in **cluster mode** (as a dedicated Kubernetes pod) or **client mode** (as a process inside your submitter pod, for example an Airflow scheduler or worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single Step Instrumentation (SSI) injects the Java tracer into your Spark driver and executor pods at startup. It works regardless of whether your Spark driver runs in **cluster mode** (as a dedicated Kubernetes pod) or **client mode** (as a process inside your submitter pod; for example, an Airflow scheduler or worker).
```

> Spark automatically sets `spark-role: driver` on driver pods and `spark-role: executor` on executor pods. If you run Spark in client mode, the driver runs inside your submitter pod rather than a dedicated Kubernetes pod. In that case, replace `spark-role: driver` with the labels that identify your submitter pod. To find those labels, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spark automatically sets `spark-role: driver` on driver pods and `spark-role: executor` on executor pods. In client mode, replace `spark-role: driver` with the labels that identify your submitter pod instead. To find those labels, run:
```

You define client mode in the previous sentence, so just removing some redundancy here

```shell
kubectl get pod <SUBMITTER_POD_NAME> -n <NAMESPACE> --show-labels
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

> Requires [Datadog Operator][8] version 1.13.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requires [Datadog Operator][100] version 1.13.0 or later.
```

See my comment on line 197 for an explanation!

Add the `features.apm.instrumentation` section to your `datadog-agent.yaml` and apply it:

```yaml
features:
  apm:
    instrumentation:
      enabled: true
      enabledNamespaces:

>         - <NAMESPACE>

Reviewer: What namespace is this referring to? Where Spark jobs run, or where the Agent is installed? Could be worth adding  a note (here + line 207 for Helm)

Author: Sorry, that's the spark one, updated !

      targets:
        - name: spark-driver
          podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              spark-role: driver   # replace with your submitter pod labels if running in client mode
          ddTraceVersions:
            java: "latest"
          ddTraceConfigs:
            - name: DD_DATA_JOBS_ENABLED
              value: "true"
        - name: spark-executor
          podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              spark-role: executor
          ddTraceVersions:
            java: "latest"
          ddTraceConfigs:
            - name: DD_DATA_JOBS_ENABLED
              value: "true"
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/datadog-agent.yaml
```

> {{% /tab %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[100]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-operator/releases

{{% /tab %}}
```

One unfortunate thing about tabs is your link references need to be _within_ the tab block. Otherwise the link looks broken, like this:
<img width="495" height="144" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e2437e5-e93d-4cf3-9770-cfdd541d1d4f" />

I also updated the numbering so that if someone else updates this file later and adds an `[8]` to the list of links at the bottom, there won't be a collision.

{{% tab "Helm" %}}

Add the following to your `datadog-values.yaml` and apply it:

```yaml
datadog:
  apm:
    instrumentation:
      enabled: true
      enabledNamespaces:
        - <NAMESPACE>
      targets:
        - name: spark-driver
          podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              spark-role: driver   # replace with your submitter pod labels if running in client mode
          ddTraceVersions:
            java: "latest"
          ddTraceConfigs:
            - name: DD_DATA_JOBS_ENABLED
              value: "true"
        - name: spark-executor
          podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              spark-role: executor
          ddTraceVersions:
            java: "latest"
          ddTraceConfigs:
            - name: DD_DATA_JOBS_ENABLED
              value: "true"
```

```shell
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> datadog/datadog -f datadog-values.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> After applying, restart the targeted pods for the init container to be injected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the configuration, restart the targeted pods. SSI injects the init container into each pod on startup.
```

Suggestion to make this a little more clear. Feel free to adjust.

## Validation

In Datadog, view the [Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring][5] page to see a list of all your data processing jobs.

## Advanced Configuration

### Set service, environment, and version tags

To attach service, environment, and version tags to your job traces, pass the following JVM options in your spark-submit configuration or `spark-defaults.conf`:

> `spark.driver.extraJavaOptions`

Reviewer: I would probably make these a normal code block. Or were you trying to do a [description list](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/docs4docs/pages/1182958054/Markdown+Shortcode+Reference#Description-lists)?

[4]: https://helm.sh
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/data-jobs/
[6]: /data_jobs

> [8]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-operator/releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(moved to within the tab, see line 197)
